# ML-Heat-Modelling

# Abstract
Advancements in machine learning in the past decade have facilitated a considerable number of research fields across natural science and engineering. Among these advancements, solving partial differential equations (PDEs) using deep learning approaches as the basis of modelling various physical processes has been argued to be a promising area with a wide range of application scenarios. This research project aims to investigate Physics Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) and Deep Operator Networks (DeepONets) as methods of solving heat transfer problems, and apply these deep learning methods in the permafrost modelling process to obtain approximation of temperature profiles in the investigated areas. The experiments conducted show that PINNs are able to solve 1D heat transfer problems using physical constraints as penalties in the loss function, and DeepONets can learn the differential operators themselves, mapping families of initial conditions and parameters in PDEs to their solutions with a larger scale. Attempts are made to construct a DeepONet architecture with the data from the CryoGrid model, predicting the solution space with boundary conditions and parameters of the problem as inputs.

# CryoPINN
The CryoPINN is a Julia package of solving heat transfer PDEs by numerical and Physics Informed Neural Network methods and plotting the results. The construction of the deep learning model is mainly based on Lux, NeuralPDE and other Julia packages, and the numerical solver is mainly based on ModelingToolkit and MethodOflines. This project also conducted experiments using the package DeepXDE.

# CryoDeepONet
CryoDeepONet is the code implementation for solving heat transfer problems and modelling permafrost processes using DeepONet based on DeepXDE. It consists two parts, the first part involves solving the theoretical heat transfer PDEs using DeepONet, whereas the second part uses permafrost data generated by the CryoGrid model and attempts to model the temperature profile using the DeepONet architecture.


